Our approach here of course works we're storing the inputs in some state we're storing the validity
in some state and we could do this validity management for all our inputs here and simply have our different
change handler functions here for our different inputs that would work.
One important note by the way before we move on since I check the title validity here to submit handler
of course we should also add there as a dependency.
So title is valid must be added there as a dependency in the use callback dependency array.
That's important.
Otherwise this function will not be rebuilt when that validity changes.
Which means we won't be able to submit it there after the problem with our current approach is that
we manage different states to store the input for the different inputs and then we also have different
validity states at least potentially if we start managing our validity like this.
And for very large forums of course this means a lot of copy and pasting a lot of state management.
Now if you have that many states that are kind of connected you also can do this in a more elegant way
instead of having your separate states for each input.
You can have one big state which merges all input values and which merges all validity is and then use
a concept called a reducer not a redux reducer but one supported by react out the box to manage that
state.
You do this with the use reducer hook which again has nothing to do with redux.
The concept of a reducer is not redux exclusive reducer in the end it's just a function that takes input
and spits out some output and therefore react all the supports this and you'll see how you can use this
in this lecture now.
So what's the idea of a reducer now.
First it's important to understand that user a user is a hook that helps you have state management typically
you use it if you have connected states or more complex state and you don't want have a bunch of individual
use state calls and a bunch of individual states which you manage you then can use use reducer.
And here's how it works.
You start by creating wealth a reducer let's say a form reducer here you can name it whatever you want.
And please note I created outside of my form component.
You could do it in there but if you don't depend on props you can do it outside of there so that this
won't rebuild with every rebrand or cycle and you don't even have to use use callback which of course
all the costs some performance if you use it so use it outside of their building outside of theater
to a wide unnecessary recreations of that function and now it is really user just like a redux where
the user gets the current state and an action but again it's not related to redux it's not used by redux
reduce functions just always kind of work like this now in there.
Again just like it now read X reducer because again they work like this.
You can check different action types and here and want to check one type this as well.
Just use the if statement.
You could use us which case statement as well.
And did I check action dot type here is totally up to me.
You can named as whatever you want because you will be the one dispatching the action later and here
a check for the update action which also is an identifier I chose and which just like in redux.
You could also store is identifier in a standalone constant here so you could have your reducer update
actually for example your reduced to update identifier like this and use this instead here.
If you wanted to and you can name does whatever you want.
So now I'm checking for this action and if this action occurs I want to store I input value and validated.
But to understand this we need to understand how we use the former user.
So let's leave it like this for the moment and go down to the component itself.
There we start setting up our form states down here.
So here I when I call user reducer and now a user ID user take such a reduced function hence I will
pass in my form reducer which I set up here and which is still unfinished.
Use reduce for all to takes some optional second argument which is the initial state you want to pass
in and that can be anything but here I'll pass in a javascript object in the initial state I want to
use here is the end of object which has input values which then is yet another nested object which I'll
soon populate.
Input validity is which all is nested object and maybe an overall form validity.
I'll name ID form is valid which initially is false.
Let's say so this is now my initial state I pass it here and that's the state which I later want to
change from insert the form reducer now on the input values we can for example at our title and that
is up to you how you name it which is an empty string initially.
Let's say these will be the initial values I want to set on my inputs and visible in the end replace
my state management down there where I manually stored my inputs in different states.
Now I will merged does all into one object managed through that reducer.
So I have my title here and actually that's not always empty of course but actually it's only empty
if we have no edited product.
So we'll copy this check from beta and use this in here.
Now the same of course for the image you are out there.
I initialize this with an additive product dot image you are L if it's a way label and otherwise he
was an empty string.
Basically what I did down there as well.
And of course I do the same for the description here.
I want to check if edited product the set and I use this description or set it to an empty string.
If it's not available now last but not least we have the price and there I always have an empty string
because we either don't need it in the case of an edited product.
Then I don't care about its value or we do need it.
Well then I want to initialize it with an empty value.
Anyways now of course each input also has a validity so we can add a title here and again check whether
additive product is set.
If it is set then I know I'm editing.
So we will have pretty populated the title.
So initially it will be valid.
So in this case my initial value would be true.
Otherwise it will be false and now it is all something we can repeat for the image you or L if we have
added that product.
We know it was pre populate that therefore it will be valid initially.
So as we set this to true otherwise I set it to false.
If I have my room for my description here it's the same true or false.
And for the price it's kind of equal.
Of course we don't pre populate the price.
If we're editing but if we are editing I don't care about the price anyways because it will not be changeable.
Therefore I know if I am editing I should treat this as valid because it can't be changed anyways and
therefore I don't care about this input.
But I don't want to block forum submission because of setting this to false when we can't edit it anyways
so we'll set it to true if this is not planned to be edited.
If we're not editing a product but we're adding 1 the price will be editable and therefore we will start
in a false state because the price input will be empty initially that's what we're setting up here in
the overall form validity.
Well there again I can check if we have an edited product which means we are editing then to form is
true to form is valid initially.
Otherwise it's false initially if we're adding a new product now it is my initial stage here.
Now this reducer function should be able to change that state when actions are dispatched and then action
should be dispatched whatever we type into one of our text inputs.
That will be the trigger so therefore we can now get rid of all these state assignments here and hence
we can also get rid of the entire use state import even and make sure we dispatched you reduce your
update action for every keystroke we do in a input.
So here in the title change handler I in the end will remove this code I leave to check for now but
for I'll not have any code in there for the moment and step down there.
I want to dispatch road user update and now this is done with the result of the use reduce recall because
user ID user of course return something just like use states did it all returns an array with exactly
two elements and therefore we can d structure it with this array D structuring syntax which we also
used on U.S. state and dare I get my form state as a first value in a dispatch function as a second
value.
This is always what use reducer will return you state snapshot which updates whenever you change it
of course.
So whenever you change it this component will re render and give you a new state snapshot and a function
dispatch in the end is a function that allows you to dispatch actions against this reducer.
Of course you can name these two elements however you want but I think this is a sensible naming.
This is our state snapshot.
This is a function now this patch by the way is a name I already use here from redux.
So here I will named as dispatch form state to a wider named clash.
You can name it however you want.
So dispatch form state can now be used here in my title change handler.
I just call it and I need to pass the object there which describes my action and this object will have
a type property.
You don't have to have a type property you could named as I.D. or identifier or whatever you want but
I use type here because I actually do check for the type property instead of my reducer function and
this reducer function will be executed for every new action you dispatch so if I go back down there
the type will be reduced or update or maybe a bad name actually would be for him update I think so that's
also what I'll use up here of course and up here.
So for him update maybe form input update the name of course is up to you but it should be clear about
what it does.
So hero all to have form input update.
Yeah that looks good.
So form input update.
That's what I dispatched down there.
Need to change it here as well.
And of course you can also pass any other data you might want to use inside of your reducer.
And I do have some other data which I want to use that would be the value and I'll just named as value
here at this property.
You can name it however you want.
That's the text which was entered.
So I just forward that to the reducer so that we can store it in our state there and the validity of
this input.
So therefore here I will actually add is valid prop which initially let's say is false and knowledgeable
removed as L's case and check if we're greater than zero view here which would mean that it should be
true because that I said is valid equal to true otherwise it will stay false.
With that we can also add is valid as a key to the action and a forward the value stored inside of our
is valid variable.
And this will be false initially but if our input length for the title is greater than zero then it
will actually be true and now we of course also need to let our reducer know which input trigger this.
So add that say input I.D. field here or just input whatever you like and use title here.
And this key here should be a key which you all to have inside of your state like here and input values
and input validity is because this will allow you to write some reducer code which will do soon.
That is highly reusable and highly flexible because now we can take the next step and make sure that
we transform this to be a function that actually works for all inputs and that is really flexible regarding
how we use it.